--MAKE SURE TO CREATE CUSTOMIZED TABLES IN YOUR DATABASE FIRST
--6 tables are [WideWorldImporters].[dbo].[Orders], [WideWorldImporters].[dbo].OrderLines, [WideWorldImporters].[dbo].Customers, [WideWorldImporters].[dbo].[Invoices], [WideWorldImporters].[dbo].[InvoiceLines], [WideWorldImporters].[dbo].[StockItems]
--Code to create tables is present in file named '1_create_your_custom_tables'
--Description of fields present in custom details are available in the file named '2_Column_description_for_the_custom_tables'

1. Total Customers
How many customers are there in the database?

2. Orders Count
How many total orders have been placed?

3. First and Last Order Dates
What is the date of the first and the most recent order in the system?

4. Customers from a City
List all customers having postal address as "Ghoshville".

5. Products and Categories
Show all products along with their categories.

6. Orders in Last 7 Days
How many orders were placed in the month of MAY 2016?

7. Order Amounts per Customer
For each customer, show their name and total amount spent (from orders).

8. Product Quantity Summary
For each product, show total quantity sold.

9. Completed vs Pending Orders
Count the number of orders that are not picked.

10. Most Expensive Product
Which product has the highest price?

11. Recent Signups
Show the names of customers who signed up in the last 30 days.

12. Orders per Customer
How many orders has each customer placed? Show customer name and order count.

13. Product Prices Over 1000
List all products priced above 1000.

14. Unique Cities
From how many different cities do we have customers?

15. Orders with Total Above 5000
List all order IDs where the total_amount is more than 5000.

16. Customer and Order Join
Show customer name, order_id, and order_date by joining customers and orders.

17. Product Category Count
How many products are there in each category?

18. Customer Email Format Check
Show all customers whose phone number is not in proper format. Ideally length should be 14 characters.

19. Orders with No Items
List any order IDs that have no matching rows in order_items.

20. Gray color Product
Find all items where the product description contains the color "Gray" 

21. Top 5 Most Recent Orders

Show the 5 most recent orders with order ID, customer name, and order date.

22. Customer Without Orders

List all customers who have never placed an order.

23. Orders by City

Show the number of orders grouped by customer city.

24. Total Revenue

What is the total revenue from all completed orders?

25. Average Order Value

What is the average order value (total_amount) across all orders?

26. First Order per Customer

Show the first order date for each customer.

27. Orders in 2017

How many orders were placed in the calendar year 2016?

28. Product Price Range

Find the minimum and maximum price of all products.

29. Days Since Signup

For each customer, show how many days ago they signed up (from today).

30. Orders with Product Count

For each order, how many different products were included?

31. Orders Delivered Same Day

List orders where the delivery date is the same as the order date.

32. Products Never Ordered

Find products that were never included in any order.

33. Category of Most Expensive Product

What category does the most expensive product belong to?

34. Customers with only 1 order

Are there any customers who have placed only 1 order till now?

35. Orders with High Quantity

List orders that included any product with a quantity of 10 or more.

36. Category with Most Products

Which product category has the highest number of products?

37. Customer with maximum Order

Find customer who has placed maximum order.

38. Order Date and Weekday

For each order, show the order date and the day of the week it was placed.

39. Orders not invoiced

List orders that don’t have invoices generated.

40. Customers with phone is not Provided

Show customers where phone number is NULL or empty.

41. Product Sales Summary

For each product, show the total quantity sold and total revenue (price × quantity).

42. Customers Who Placed Orders in December

List customers who placed at least one order in December (any year).

43.Customer who placed highest order

Find customer who placed the order with highest value.

44. Number of Orders per Month

Show how many orders were placed each month in 2013.

45. Product Count per Order

For each order, how many unique products were ordered?

46. Customer Signup Year

For each customer, extract the year they signed up.

47. Customers Whose Name Starts with ‘A’

List all customers whose names begin with the letter A.

48. Find Duplicate Phone

Are there any customers with duplicate phone numbers ?

49. Orders Made on a Weekend

Find orders placed on a Saturday or Sunday.

50. Product Categories Starting with ‘E’

List all unique product categories that start with the letter ‘E’.

51. Top-Selling Product by Revenue

Which product generated the highest revenue overall?

52. Percentage of Completed Orders

What percentage of total orders are marked as ‘completed’?

53. Products Sold in Only One Order

Identify products that have been sold in only one distinct order.

54. Average Items per Order

On average, how many items are there in each order?

55. Order Fulfillment Delay

Show the number of days it took to fulfill each order (fulfillment_date - order_date).

56. List Product Prices by Category

For each category, list all products sorted by price descending.
57. Top Customer by Total quality 

Who is the customer that has placed the most order in total?

58. Longest Customer Name

Which customer has the longest name?

59. Orders with No Fulfillment

List all orders that have not been delivered.

 60. Product Name Word Count

For each product, count how many words are in its name.
